**Mooc 2.1.2 - Definition of Artificial Intelligence**

Objectives: Present the diverse definitions of AI and its scientific
fields

Contributors: Inria Learning Lab

Giving a definition of AI is a complex task as there is no mutually
agreed definition or taxonomy of AI[^1].

The term 'artificial intelligence' was first used in 1955 by McCarthy &
al.[^2] to describe the \"*science and engineering of making intelligent
machines, especially intelligent computer programs*\".

In 1968, an other father of AI, Marvin Minsky, has proposed a short
definition of AI, arguing that it is "*the science of making machine do
things that would require intelligence if done by men*"[^3].

Since then, the expression \"artificial intelligence\" is often used to
refer to algorithms that simulate or share some of the intelligence
capabilities of living beings.

On the European level, the High level expert group on Artificial
intelligence proposes the following detailed definition, which is
commonly referred to in the European commission works[^4]:

"*Artificial intelligence (AI) systems are **software** (and possibly
also hardware) systems designed by humans that, given a complex goal,
act in the physical or digital dimension by perceiving their environment
through data acquisition, interpreting the collected structured or
unstructured data, reasoning on the knowledge, or processing the
information, derived from this data and deciding the best action(s) to
take to achieve the given goal. AI systems can either use symbolic rules
or learn a numeric model, and they can also adapt their behaviour by
analysing how the environment is affected by their previous actions.*\"

This description of AI is depicted on the following figure[^5].

![](media/image1.png){width="5.454683945756781in"
height="4.606176727909012in"}

Five big ideas in AI. Credit: AIK12 Initiative. CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
International

As a scientific discipline, AI explores several approaches and
techniques[^6], such as:

-   Machine learning (of which deep learning and reinforcement learning
    > are specific examples),

-   Machine reasoning (which includes planning, scheduling, knowledge
    > representation and reasoning, search, and optimization),

-   and robotics (which includes control, perception, sensors and
    > actuators, as well as the integration of all other techniques into
    > cyber-physical systems).

[^1]: Joint Research Centre technical report: AI Watch: defining
    artificial intelligence - toward an operational definition and
    taxonomy of artificial intelligence (2020) -
    [[https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC118163]{.ul}](https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC118163)
    (consulted 08/19/2022)

[^2]: McCarthy, J., Minsky, M. L., Rochester, N., & Shannon, C. E.
    (2006). A Proposal for the Dartmouth Summer Research Project on
    Artificial Intelligence, August 31, 1955. AI Magazine, 27(4), 12.
    https://doi.org/10.1609/aimag.v27i4.1904

[^3]: Minsky, M. L. Semantic information processing. Cambridge, MA: MIT
    Press quoted in. AI watch: defining artificial intelligence 2.0 -
    page 113 (op.cit)

[^4]: High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence: A definition
    of AI: main capabilities and disciplines (2019)
    [[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/definition-artificial-intelligence-main-capabilities-and-scientific-disciplines]{.ul}](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/definition-artificial-intelligence-main-capabilities-and-scientific-disciplines)
    (consulted 08/19/2022)

[^5]: Minsky, M. L. Semantic information processing. Cambridge, MA: MIT
    Press quoted in. AI watch: defining artificial intelligence 2.0 -
    page 113 (op.cit)

[^6]: High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence: A definition
    of AI: main capabilities and disciplines (2019)
    [[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/definition-artificial-intelligence-main-capabilities-and-scientific-disciplines]{.ul}](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/definition-artificial-intelligence-main-capabilities-and-scientific-disciplines)
    (consulted 08/19/2022)
